# GutenDext
This project uses the public online book database which contains several copyright-free published novels from around the world to employ the books into a type-practicing web application. The web application will allow users to type the entirety of a book based on the texts imported from the public GutenBerg API, GutenDex (http://gutendex.com/). Project GutenBerg is a free public website that users can go for free ebooks from the public domain. This web application will make a fetch request for users' search of a book within the database for them to type. The name "GutenDext" is derived from the GutenBerg Project and the GutenDex.

## Launch
The application must be launched through the execution of the Python script. The application will not function properly if launched using HTML.

## Implementation
### Book Importation
The appliation imports the book's text from the GutenBerg Project, that electronically stores free eBooks publicly with almost no restrictions in the U.S. One of the restrictions on their website (https://www.gutenberg.org/), however, is that developers are not allowed to remotely access the text directly from their website. To work around this issue, an external API had to be used, called Gutendex (https://gutendex.com/). This website contains the JSON web API for GutenBerg Project's eBooks' metadata, such as title, author, subjects, etc. Through this web API, the application calls to fetch a desired book's metadata in order to display them to the users. Nevertheless, this external API alone cannot fetch the full texts of the books since the API only contains direct links to Gutenberg's website, which is not usable. One circumvention to this problem was to utilize a mirror of GutenBerg's database. There are several mirrors for GutenBerg, but one exceptional mirror was through this link: https://mirrors.xmission.com/gutenberg/. In order to navigate around the mirror server, the application fetches the book's ID number to execute a simple search to find the full text of the desired book. The procedures so far are done with HTML, CSS, and Javascript; however, in order for the application to actually import the full text, it has to use a Python script that webscrapes the full text from the mirror server. The communication between the Python script and Javascript program was accomplished through Python Eel.

### Type Speed Test
The typing speed test game part of the application is based on CodingNepal's demonstration as seen on their instructional YouTube video (https://www.codingnepalweb.com/typing-speed-test-game-html-javascript/). Credit to their website and services. Once the user selects and confirms the book that they wish to type test on, they will be given 120 seconds to type out several paragraphs containing the actual texts from the book. The application calculates the Words-Per-Minute (WPM) score as well as Characters-Per-Minute (CPM) as the user types the paragraphs. After they've finished the paragraph, they can choose to go to the next set of paragraphs that comes chronologically after the previous set of paragraphs.
